- There's one building
that rises above the rest
of the San Francisco skyline.
It's home to a software giant
whose story begins somewhere
more tropical.
I heard something, did you
really come up with the idea
for Salesforce while you were
swimming with dolphins in
Hawaii?
I did. I did. I, I, I do
a great dolphin imitation.
Did you know that? Can you, oh
Oh My God.
How do they respond? Do
This is Marc Benioff,
CEO, and founder of Salesforce,
the world's number one customer
relationship management,
or CRM software provider.
They sell cloud-based business
tools for sales, marketing,
e-commerce, all that good stuff.
It might sound niche,
but their clients include
the likes of Apple, Boeing,
Amazon, and more than 150,000 companies.
Benioff has been called a
master networker, a force
of nature, Mr.
Disruptor and the Fresh
Prince of software.
Let's just say subtlety
isn't really his thing.
He spent more than $20 million
to license Einstein's
likeness for the face
of Salesforce AI. Pointing to the future.
And if you're wondering why they have
so many cuddly mascots. They're
really leaning into this.
It's all part of the strategy to make tech
and AI seem friendly, accessible, and fun.
Are we having fun yet?
Is this supposed to be a
flying squirrel? What is this?
Today? Benioff is all in on
the AI boom with a new product,
AI agents, a digital workforce,
to autonomously complete tasks.
This is what AI was meant to be.
These are agents who are
making you more productive
or reducing your cost,
making things easier.
He isn't the only one
betting big on agentic ai,
but true to form, he's all in.
It's like walking with a rockstar.
Yeah, I'm like the Taylor Swift of tech.
Don't worry. We'll give
him a chance to explain
that one. Okay.
And pose for some photos. Hello? Yeah.
Here we are. Back in the Ohana Room.
Welcome back.
Thank you, Ohana.
We're so happy to have you.
How do you know what Ohana means?
I was born and Hawaii, born and
raised. And you love Hawaii, which
I love. I love Hawaii too.
But next time if we do this,
I want Mai Tai's on the big island.
Let's do it.
Deal.
Come over.
I've interviewed you many times.
Does Steve ever ask you for advice?
No. I don't think I have a
lot of advice for Steve Jobs
For more on that dispute
and Marc Benioff's vision. But
our vision of the future is different.
How can we be? What are we
really trying to achieve here?
And how? But I wanna go
back a bit to Young Marc.
growing up in San Francisco. Yeah.
Young Marc.
So your parents ran department stores.
That's true. Your first job
was cleaning jewelry cases
Benioff's department store.
Benioff's department stores. Yeah.
Who was Marc Benioff
before Marc Benioff.
Tell me about the young,
Do I even exist?
Is this an existential thing?
Should I bring in some spiritual
guru? Maybe. I don't know.
Yeah. But seriously,
tell me about you as a kid.
- I was born right there.
My grandfather was a supervisor
and worked right there in City Hall.
And he also was an
attorney at six 90 Market
Street, right there.
And we used to walk right
back and forth there.
And he was doing civic leadership.
And my father, you know, was a retailer.
I was just 15 years old.
I was cleaning jewelry cases,
and I walked across the
street to a Radio Shack store,
which doesn't really exist anymore.
And I found a computer.
And in that computer I became fascinated
and I taught myself how to program.
I sold my first piece of
software when I was about 15,
called How to Juggle.
And that was that.
- The rest is history, which is a bit
of an understatement at its core.
This is a story all about software.
A self-taught teenage programmer turned
visionary tech billionaire.
And believe it or not, it all starts
with a customer service job.
In 1986, you could find Benioff
answering customer calls at
a not so little future competitor
called Oracle under the
wing of longtime CEO.
Larry Ellison. Benioff's Knack
for Sales took him straight to the top.
At age 26,
he became the youngest vice
president in company history.
Then in 1999, at the
height of the.com boom,
Benioff struck out on his
own founding Salesforce
and the software as a service
or SaaS industry was born.
Not everyone saw the potential,
nonetheless, Benioff's vision
and the first of many
over the top marketing
campaigns paid off.
Within five years, Salesforce went public,
and within a decade, both Benioff
and his company were
counting cash by the billion.
He's been no stranger to top
billing ever since I caught up
with Bloomberg Business
Week editor, Brad Stone,
to get his expert take on what
makes Benioff a cover man.
So you've been covering tech for decades.
You've covered Benioff for
decades. Let's go back to 1999.
What made Salesforce such a game changer?
I mean, we have to go back to
how software was sold back then.
They were licenses, they were
slow to install at companies.
You had these very powerful IT departments
that were in charge of
managing the installations.
Upgrades took forever.
Salesforce was ahead
of the game in selling
software over the internet
as a service, hosting it
in their own data centers.
And not only was that entirely new model
for selling software, it moved
the center of gravity, the,
the power center in companies
from these IT departments
to business planners and executives.
- You founded the
company now 25 years ago.
So you've seen the rise
of mobile and social
and the cloud, and now ai.
How has the CEO job changed for you?
Well, the CEO job is
really changing fast.
You know, because it used to be,
I felt very alone at the top,
but now, like I just finished
writing the business plan
for this year, and I always
do that with someone else.
Like I take one of our executives
and for the last three years,
I've also have found a new partner in ai.
So I have an AI partner,
I have a human partner,
and it's the three of us who
are writing the plan together.
So it's a little less
lonely at the top of AI
Today, in the wake of the
chatGPT craze companies,
including Salesforce, are turning to AI
as a survival strategy.
Not just the kind of AI
that can generate recipes
or cartoony your family pictures,
but the kind that can
do your work for you.
In Benioff's case,
the vision is a platform
called Agent Force.
It's these agents,
these digital laborers,
digital employees who are
out there doing this work.
Servicing are the customer
selling the customer marketing
to the customer, partnering
with me to do the analytics,
the marketing, the branding.
So that's, you know, exciting.
You've said you'll
have a billion agents on
Salesforce before the end of the year.
Yes. - Are you on track?
What are they doing? What
Will
They be doing? I mean, we're,
We're remarkably on track
because we now have about
5,000 customers deploying this.
And it's amazing how many
agents we see getting spawned.
And I mean, by far it's
the fastest growing,
most exciting thing we've ever done.
Classic Benioff salesmanship.
Marc Benioff is a larger
than life figure in San
Francisco, in the technology industry.
I mean, literally he cuts
an opposing figure, right?
Six and a half feet tall.
He runs one of the most
important technology companies in
San Francisco.
Now it is fundamentally
a boring company, right?
They sell software to businesses
to help salespeople track their
interactions with customers.
You know, he's gonna watch
This, right?
But what Marc is so good at is enlivening
that mission in inspiring his employees.
He does it through casting rivalries.
He does it by imbuing a
mission, bringing sort
of Hawaiian spirituality into the company.
And he also does it by seasoning
the company with celebrity.
You go to a Marc Benioff event
and you might be seeing a-list talent,
and it's sometimes easy to forget that
what he's fundamentally
doing to selling software
and services to companies.
I figured what better place
to see Benioff in action than his 22nd
annual Dreamforce event?
Of course, more than 45,000
other people had the same idea.
And Benioff was no doubt
the star of the show.
Alright, where, where is the
camera? Where is the camera?
Do we have a camera or do we We do have a,
did we lose you?
We don't wanna lose you,
Emily, in all of this
That is along with Pink
Kate Hudson, Imagine Dragons,
Jane Goodall, and of
course Matthew McConaughey,
Salesforce's creative
advisor and advertising news.
The booking app I used didn't have Agent
Force.
How do you get your
Dreamforce game face on?
Well, it's hard because I
think in this case, this year,
everything has changed with ai.
Yeah.
And everything has changed to the point
where you have to understand
that customers want the power
of AI without the mystique.
I want to try to get to that point.
I've never walked with you
through a Dreamforce where
Yeah, where it's, yeah,
yeah, yeah.
I started to think we might not make it
to our live TV interview.
All right, so that's
The show here. You're
On that side.
Yeah. Sorry. Gotta prioritize
the customers, Emily.
Yeah. Gotta prioritize
the customers and the fans.
Do you feel like you're sort
of refounding the company
for the AI era?
Well, I really think
that, I mean, that's one way
to think about it, but
I think the other thing
to think about it is that,
did you want to get in here?
And I, I - And the, come on,
Emily. We're Can we get it?
All right? Let's do it. What
are we doing? We sit here.
Here you go. Okay. Okay.
And close for some photos.
Hello? Yeah. Look at everybody.
All right. It's good. Okay.
All right, great. What's the,
what's the, what's the point of this?
What it just, what's the
point of any of this really?
Is it just the vibe? It's the vibe,
The, okay.
Is everyone loving this? We're
loving, yeah. Great. Exactly.
This is so Silicon Valley.
Yeah,
Silicon Valley will do
as Silicon Valley does.
But we were in a crunch, so we
had limited time for canoes.
Here we go. Did you wanna do some golf
And no time for mini golf.
Okay. Okay, we're two minutes out.
Alright. Alright.
You got the walkin talk
wanted, I got the watch. I know.
So, I don't know if you know this,
but our last interview at
Dreamforce, someone spoofed it.
Thank you so much, Marc.
It's always great to be here
with you at Dreamforce.
- Welcome back to Show The
- Rockstar. Welcome.
It's a simple question. Just
tell me what Salesforce does.
What, what do you do for your
customers? They don't care.
Salesforce has kind of become a meme.
There's these jokes out there.
I is so scary. Thank you.
It's okay. It's alright. It's alright.
People who use it say it's
can be confusing. Boom,
click and go back this way.
Boom. Here, here, click and
go. That way. Boom. That way
They joke that some people
don't even know what it is.
How do you feel about
your company being both a
lifeline and a punchline?
I love it. And also like
even Elon Musk texted me
and said, Hey, I, I don't understand,
what does Salesforce do?
And I'm like, what is this? The meme?
And he is like, yeah, you also have Slack.
Yeah, we also have
Slack. You have Tableau.
Yeah, we have Tableau. You
also have MuleSoft. Yeah.
We also have all these other products.
It's like, why do you call
this company Salesforce?
I'm like, what should
we call it Agent force,
Whether or not a name
change is in order,
it's clear that agents
are the talk of the tower.
But how far will this whole
agent thing actually go?
Alright, go agents.
Seriously how far
Salesforce's revenue
has reliably grown year
over year from the start.
But for the coming year,
they gave a forecast
that fell short of estimates,
sparking pessimism.
So all eyes are on Benioff's
AI strategy, what it means
for the future of Salesforce,
and even the human workforce too.
So you've said you won't hire
any more coders at Salesforce,
and you've said today's
CEOs will be the last
to manage all human workforces.
What does this mean for businesses?
Well, I think I just
had a meeting, you know,
coming from a meeting with
my head of engineering,
and we're looking at
productivity levels of 30
to 50% this year in key
functions like engineering,
coding, support.
You're saying
Service
AI is doing 30 to 50% of the work.
AI is doing 30 to 50% of
the work at Salesforce now.
And I think that that
will, you know, continue.
I think that this is, we have
to get our, all of us have
to get our head around this
idea that AI can do things that
before, you know, we were doing
and we can move on to
do higher value work.
Salesforce has cut more than a thousand
roles already this year.
While some of these employees might be
redeployed in new positions.
These kinds of big reductions are sweeping
through businesses as
AI takes center stage,
Salesforce's marketing, its
AI tools on their ability
to replace human labor.
Do you have any ethical qualms about that?
Well, it's a digital labor
revolution that is, you know,
we're probably looking
at three to $12 trillion
of digital labor getting deployed.
And that digital labor's
gonna be everything from AI
agents to robots.
And I do think, you know, to
your point, you know, CEOs have
to make sure their values
are in the right place
and that values bring value.
Could an agent replace you one day?
I hope so.
You hope so?
I mean, of course I'm partially kidding.
You know that, but we're
becoming more automated.
How secure is all this?
I mean, you know, there's malicious code,
there's hallucinations.
Like what are the risks for businesses
Security,
You know, there's no finish line.
You can never have extreme
confidence on security.
You have to be completely paranoid.
Hallucinations is a, is a different story.
The current state of the art
of AI is not a hundred percent accurate.
Doesn't it get messier?
It, it could get a lot more accurate
because the models themselves are stacking
their intelligence.
So hopefully they're
honing what the truth is.
And I mean, that's the hope.
But right now it's not a
hundred percent accurate.
In our own work, we're
doing hundreds of thousands
of conversations, just our ourself
and our company with our customers.
And we have about 93% accuracy.
Even for a large brand
or a large company that
we work with, like Disney,
it's about 93%. It's
not a hundred percent.
Right. 93% though, that's
not good enough, is it?
It's pretty good.
You're able to do a lot,
but you have to be realistic
that we're not at a hundred.
You'll never see me saying that
we're at a hundred percent,
but I think for a lot
of the other vendors,
maybe they're at much lower levels
because they don't have
as much data and metadata
and they're not able to kind of put
as information into the model to get
to a higher level of accuracy.
- That air of competition is at the heart
of this AI enterprise software game.
You've been throwing some
shade at Microsoft lately.
We all know now that Microsoft
copilot is basically the
new Microsoft Clippy.
Everyone knows that at
Microsoft has disappointed
the world with copilot. And I mean that's
Just a, that's just a
repackaged chat g pt, you know
that? Yeah. Thank you.
- Marc, - What's the beef?
What did Clippy ever do to you?
I think we had to make it
clear the difference between
what we were saying and
what Microsoft was saying.
And what Microsoft was saying was, Hey we,
this is a copilot revolution.
We're all gonna have this
co-pilot. It's about the co-pilot.
And then customers were
not connecting with that.
And then we said, no, look at this.
This is the agent force vision.
This is what AI was meant to be.
That these are agents who are
making you more productive
or reducing your cost,
making things easier.
Microsoft did try to
buy you back in the day.
Does that have anything to do with it?
Well, I don't think
we're gonna go into that.
What is it between Salesforce and
Microsoft?
Well, I mean, they're
fundamentally competitors, right?
I mean, Microsoft has a suite
of CRM tools, dynamic 365
that competes with the Salesforce suite.
They compete in the cloud.
Azure from Microsoft competing against
Salesforce's platform.
You've got a Slack which
Salesforce bought competing against
Microsoft teams
and Microsoft's reputation for
bundling software together.
But look beyond, I think the basics
of the competition in the marketplace.
Marc is always someone who
has known the motivating power
of a rivalry.
And he learned that
from Larry Ellison, one
of his first rivals.
And so I, I think it's something
that he really loves to talk about.
This is a market that's probably
big enough for all players,
but for Mark being able to target the kind
of evil empire I think is valuable.
Google and Meta we're on
trial for being monopolies.
Is big tech too big?
Should it be broken up?
It probably has been too big
and it probably should be broken up.
Especially when you get to ai,
you're looking at the
amass of even more power.
So these companies, they
make their own models,
they control entire industries.
And for companies that control
or have monopolistic aspects
of their business, it,
it has to be looked at.
And I think that that is a key part
of the government's role
when it comes to competition.
And that's definitely one of
the guardrails of capitalism.
Throughout your career,
you've been an advocate
for social justice, you've stood up
for your employees in various states
through political shifts,
but more recently you've
stepped back from some
of the diversity and new
inequality initiatives
within Salesforce.
You've been criticized for cheerleading
for the new administration.
How do you navigate the
intersection of politics
and running a global company?
Yeah, it's two different things.
And I, you know, I think one thing is
equality is a core value at Salesforce.
And as someone who grew
up in San Francisco,
that's in my heart.
You know, I guess my
heart has rainbow colors.
And in terms of making
adjustments at Salesforce, I think
that, you know, when we can
look at it on, in the reflection
of the current administration,
what's going on,
even in the world, you know,
there were certain things
that we were doing that
just weren't too extreme.
And so it gave us an
opportunity to look at, hey,
how do we slightly adjust
what's going on while
maintaining our core values?
It's a funny thing, you
know, I own Time Magazine,
You just interviewed President Trump.
We have a hundred year history
that the president who's elected
that year becomes person of the year.
Well, if we put him on the cover
and if we make him person of the year,
even though it's a hundred
year history at time, we're all
of a sudden siding with
the administration.
What I really want Time Magazine
to be is right down in the
middle and to reflect both sides.
And I think it's great
that he's on the cover.
And by the way, lots
of people are on the
cover. And that's the idea.
This is obviously a
cover that, you know,
there have been people revered
and despised who have
had that quote unquote,
honor Benioff got criticized
for cheerleading President Trump in
that moment. Is that fair?
I, I think it's, this is a
moment to be very clear about
who Marc Benioff is.
Okay. You know, the things
that he talks about.
I think these are heartfelt,
but they're also tactics.
I mean, he's a businessman.
Salesforce has a lot of business
with the federal government.
This is not a president. You
want to be on the enemy's list.
So I think it was very transactional
and very much in keeping
with who Marc Benioff is
and the intelligence that he brings
to operating in the real world.
You've had a couple of co-CEOs
who people thought would replace you.
It didn't happen. Maybe you
thought they would replace you.
Why has it been so hard to pass
the torch?
It's a good question. I mean,
maybe you have a good analysis.
You know, I thought, I've been
on a succession plan several
times where there was
a successor in place.
I feel like I always want to
have a successor in place.
I have one now. I had one before.
Who is it now?
I've had several before.
I don't think I should
talk about it anymore.
Is one of the things I've learned
because all of a sudden
it like changes maybe
through nothing I'm doing.
Or maybe it is something that I'm doing.
But you can tell me privately
what you think I, what I should be
doing.
Well, so is it them or you?
Why are you sticking around?
Listen, number one,
I've never been happier,
more excited about Salesforce.
You know, I just finished
my management meeting
and then came right here
and it went by like a snap, you know,
because I just am so excited.
It's like that first minute
that I walked into Radio Shack
and saw that computer, you know,
of course you know how life is.
There's ebbs and flows.
But right now I'm like,
wow, this is great.
And it's, it's amazing what's happening.
I mean, I've never really seen anything.
I'm sure you see it
yourself everywhere you go.
Oh yeah. It's an exciting time.
It's an exciting time.
It's an incredible moment in our industry.
You are one of the biggest
philanthropic givers in Hawaii
and San Francisco,
and I know you've talked
for many years about
how more tech leaders need to do that.
Yeah. What should they
be taking away from the,
the book of Benioff?
One thing that's really
powerful is we put 1%
of our equity, 1% of our profit, 1% of all
of our employees' time into a foundation.
25 years ago, it was very easy
'cause we had no equity,
no profit, no time.
But we've been able to give
away a billion dollars,
run a hundred thousand companies
for free on our service.
Done 10 million hours of
volunteerism. And that's exciting.
And that is what, you know, an
example that we can give back
and that business can be the greatest
platform for change. Yeah,
That's, but how do you
get other people to do
It's well, more than 20,000 companies,
I think now have copied the 1 1 1 model.
But to become one of the
largest companies in the world
and to show that you can do well
and do good, this is our core value.
And just coming up with
another tech company
and another product, I was
never interested in that.
Yeah. - That isn't what
I want to do. Look at this.
This is gorgeous. Isn't this?
I mean, you can go all over
the world as we both have.
You don't have anything quite like this.
It's just extraordinary.
You have the top startup in
the world right here, OpenAI.
You have one of the top hospitals
and medical centers here.
You've got so many great
things happening in the
city. It's just a great city.
Well, so what do you
think about the narrative
that San Francisco is in decline?
I think it's a false narrative.
And I think that if you just
come out here and walk around
or we talk, if we just want
to talk about business,
where are we starting with?
We're starting with ai and
where is AI being built?
The people who are
creating the future here.
Oh, and by the way,
that's always been true.
This isn't the first gold
rush we've been through.
There's this complaint
though that tech has ruined,
the city, has increased inequality,
has run out the middle
class. What about that?
Well, I think it's
been true since, like,
I remember my grandfather
saying that to me in the fifties
and sixties and seventies.
It was always about, Hey, it's
this company, this industry,
it was banking or it's, you
know, it was Levi Strauss
or it was this, the
Gap or whatever it was.
But the reality is, is that
this is a huge industry
and any, every city in
the world is envious of
what we have happening here.
They all want that capability.
You can go anywhere, you
can go to Japan, you can go
to Singapore, you can
go to Sydney, you can go
to London, you can go to Paris.
Where are the top AI companies?
None of those cities.
They're all right here.
So the Taylor Swift of
Tech, do you really think,
I don't know, this is my, you know,
Era's tour is happening right
now, and then it's over
and then I can walk down
the street and nobody knows
or cares who I am, which is wonderful.
So there's, I think that's the
best of all worlds. You know?
How do you stay so ambitious
and so zen at the same
time? Do you meditate
Every single morning?
Every morning? What's the routine?
You gotta come back
to your breath, Emily.
Okay.
Yeah. You have to bring everything down.
And don't worry, let it all go.
I feel better. Do you guys
feel better? I feel good.
Thank you.